# Optimizing browsers to search within the Deployment wiki 

Authors: Main.GrantCovell 


This page describes how to optimize different browsers to search within
the Deployment wiki.

## Google Chrome

The Google Chrome browser permits adding keywords in the address bar or
omnibox to facilitate searches at specific sites using the sites' own
search engines.

To enable this for the Deployment wiki, navigate to Settings \> Search
\> Manage search engines... In the "Other search engines" section where
the empty boxes show "Add a new search engine", enter "Jazz.net
Deployment wiki" in the first field, "deploy" in the second field, and
"<https://jazz.net/wiki/bin/view/Deployment/WebSearch?search=s&scope=text>"
in the third field.

Now you can search directly on the Deployment wiki site from within the
Google Chrome address bar or omnibox. Type "deploy" (or the keyword you
chose in the step above), and then a space, and then the search terms
you are looking for.

(These instructions were validated in version 27.0.1453.110 m.)

## Mozilla Firefox

The Mozilla Firefox browser permits adding keywords in the address bar
to facilitate searches at specific sites using the sites' own search
engines.

To enable this for the Deployment wiki, navigate to the Deployment wiki
Web Search page <https://jazz.net/wiki/bin/view/Deployment/WebSearch>.
In the search field, right-click to show the "Add a Keyword for this
Search..." dialog box and, in the Keyword field, enter "deploy".

Now you can search directly on the Deployment wiki site from within the
Mozilla Firefox address bar. Type "deploy" (or the keyword you chose in
the step above) then a space and then the search terms you are looking
for.

(These instructions were validated in version 17.0.6.)

### Mozilla Firefox search engine plugin

We created a Search Engine for Firefox which must be manually installed
in your Firefox installation. The file is attached to this page and can
be downloaded from the attachments section below. Copy the file to your
computer and put it into the Firefox search engine plugin folder. The
location for Firefox search engines varies (and may change over time),
but the approximate location is:

\\searchplugins

for example, on Windows:

C:\Users\\AppData\Local\Mozilla\Firefox\Profiles\\default\searchplugins

## Microsoft Internet Explorer

*Even though the search provider capability is XML based, it is not
apparent how to enable it for Internet Explorer without running a script
or editing a registry key. At this point, if you want to add an Internet
Explorer search provider, you need to find a site online that can
configure and run the script for you in your browser. The Deployment
wiki community is still looking into ways to activate this functionality
non-intrusively.*

##### Related topics:
* [Deployment web home](DeploymentWebHome)

##### External links: 

-   None

##### Additional contributors: 
* None [additional-contributors-none]
