META:TOPICINFO{author="sbeard" date="1402818528" format="1.1"
reprev="1.6" version="1.6"}
META:TOPICPARENT{name="ImplementationPlanningAndDeploymentRoadmap"}

# Accelerating adoption of software tools and practices [accelerating-adoption-of-software-tools-and-practices]

DKGRAY Authors: Main.JohnDuckmanton Build basis: The Rational solution
for Collaborative Lifecycle Management (CLM) and the Rational solution
for systems and software engineering (SSE) ENDCOLOR

TOC{title="Page contents"}

Deploying a new software engineering process or tool to a large user
community is often both a significant technological challenge and an
organizational change that requires an appropriate level of planning,
resourcing, coordination, collaboration, and governance to be
successful. This paper describes a few of the key factors that influence
the rate of adoption and measures that can be taken to accelerate the
rate of change.

## The rate of adoption

[Figure One](#FigOne) below shows a typical change curve for the
adoption of new technology as the organization moves from its current
productivity level towards the desired target (shown as a blue line).
Initially, there is a dip in productivity as resources divert effort to
implementing and adapting to the new tools and working practices (point
A). Then gradually, as the new practices are more widely adopted and
people become more proficient in the new tools, productivity begins to
trend towards the desired target levels (point B).

BR \#FigOne *Figure One: Adoption change curve*

## Factors influencing the rate of adoption

The level and duration of the initial productivity dip, the rate of
adoption, and the extent to which productivity increases towards the
desired level are influenced by a number of factors. These are shown in
[Figure Two](#FigTwo) below. These factors can have a significant
positive impact on the rate of adoption, helping you to realize the
expected benefits from the new solution earlier. Equally they can have a
negative impact. Therefore, in planning any technology adoption they
require careful consideration.

BR \#FigTwo *Figure Two: Factors influencing the rate of adoption*

### Delivered solution

These factors relate directly to the technical solution being adopted.

#### Solution complexity [solution-complexity]

The complexity of the solution to be adopted has a significant influence
on the rate at which it can be embedded into the organization.
Complexity has a number of dimensions. For example:

-   The number of new tools, practices, or both to be adopted
-   The interdependency between elements of the solution
-   The amount of new knowledge to be communicated and absorbed

#### Solution variability [solution-variability]

*Solution variability* means how uniformly the solution can be applied
throughout the target organization. There will generally be a number of
variants of the solution, tailored to meet the particular needs of a
particular stakeholder group. However, the higher the variability, the
longer it will take to a) understand the variability, b) adapt the
solution to take account of the variability, and c) deploy and enable
people on each variant.

#### Available skilled resources [available-skilled-resources]

A key factor influencing the rate of adoption is correctly resourcing
the change initiative. Understanding the requirements and developing an
optimal solution needs time and effort from domain, process, and tool
subject matter experts (SMEs). Supporting the rollout of the solution is
critical. You will likely need a number of trainers and mentors who
really understand the solution well, and are available to work directly
with practitioners to mentor them and assist them to adopt the solution.
It takes time and effort for these people to develop the new skills and
capabilities required to be effective.

#### Training and enablement [training-and-enablement]

It does not matter how much more efficient and productive the new
solution is on paper, if the practitioners are not trained in the
correct use of the solution, it will be a long time before those
benefits are realized. Worse still, some practitioners might choose not
use it at all and keep doing things the old way. It is important to
build effective training, develop knowledgeable trainers, and ensure
that the practitioners receive the training and support that they need
to be successful.

#### Feedback and adaptation rate [feedback-and-adaptation-rate]

It is very difficult to define a solution that will be 100 effective
from day one, or which will not require improvement while the solution
is being deployed. Therefore, it is vital that the deployment team can
continuously gather feedback on the adopted solution and make changes as
the solution is deployed further. Failure to do this will build up
"technical debt" that must be addressed later (perhaps when no more
budget is available), and will also impact the adoption as practitioners
might feel that the solution is not "fit-for-purpose."

### Target community

The target community is the end-users of the solution that must learn to
use the new tools and practices effectively in order for any benefits to
be achieved.

#### Size of the target community [size-of-the-target-community]

Obviously, the more practitioners the solution needs to be deployed to,
the longer the adoption will take. Teams of practitioners can absorb
only a certain amount of change.

#### Geographical distribution [geographical-distribution]

Geographically dispersed teams will likely have a negative impact on the
rate of adoption, because the adoption team has additional logistical
and resource constraints. For example, your team might have to work
across multiple locations and time zones or need to be supplemented with
local resources.

#### Organizational distribution [organizational-distribution]

If you have teams from multiple organizations that all need to adopt the
solution, this can place a number of constraints on the adoption rate.

\* **Commercial:** You might be working with business partners or
subcontractors, which can introduce additional commercial constraints \*
**Political:** You might need to introduce the change into multiple
organizations or business units \* **Resources:** You might need
additional resources that will need to be trained \* **Culture:** You
might have to overcome language or cultural barriers

#### Attitude to change [attitude-to-change]

Clearly, teams that are eager to adopt the new solution will do so more
willingly than teams that are more reserved or reticent. Effective
communication of the rationale and benefits is vital, as is listening
to--and responding to--concerns and insecurities presented by the
practitioners. There are a number of steps that you can take ensure a
positive outcome. For example:

-   Choosing the right mix of people to be "champions" or subject matter
    experts
-   Choosing the right teams to be "early adopters"
-   Recognizing and rewarding participation and successful adoption

### Change impact

The following factors relate to the effectiveness of the change
management approach used to embed the new solution.

#### Leadership effectiveness [leadership-effectiveness]

*Leadership* is "organizing a group of people to achieve a common goal"
(Locke et al, 1991). Change happens more smoothly with effective
leadership. When the vision, goals, and benefits are effectively
communicated and understood and the adoption is correctly planned and
managed, people naturally align the work that they do toward achieving
those goals. Achieving executive-level support for the change initiative
within the target organization is therefore critical.

#### Communication [communication]

Resistance to change often arises from uncertainly about the future.
People will ask: how will the change affect me? Will I still have a job?
How will my job change? When will the change happen? Why are we doing
this? It is important that these questions are answered in order to
achieve buy-in from the practitioners.

#### Timing of change introduction [timing-of-change-introduction]

Obviously, there is an imperative to adopt the new solution as quickly
as possible in order to realize the benefits. However, there are often
practical reasons that will dictate when (or even whether) it makes
sense for the team to move to the new solution:

-   Projects nearing completion
-   Critical points in a teams lifecycle (for example, a team that is
    just about to release a major new product)
-   Projects that will not benefit from using the new tools and
    practices

#### Risk and impact of change [risk-and-impact-of-change]

If the impact of the change and the risk of failure are small, then a
team will probably be able to absorb the change without impacting their
plans significantly. However, if the risk or impact is large, then the
change must be assessed, planned in, budgeted for, and appropriately
resourced. This will take more time to achieve.

## Adoption best practices

When undertaking any large-scale adoption of new technology, be it new
processes or working practices, new tools, or both, there are several
best practices that are essential to the success of the adoption:

### Adopt incrementally

An organization can effectively support only a given size of change
effort. Also, practitioners can cope with only a certain level of
change; beyond this level, the productivity dip that was discussed
earlier becomes unacceptably large. To respond to this, introduce the
new capability incrementally in a number of phases. When doing this, it
is important to consider a number of factors:

\* Carefully identifying the right capability to include in each
increment, ensuring that practices and associated tooling are delivered
together \* The priority of each increment to the end-users \* The
implications of not having all the expected new capability at once.
Often, leads to temporary workarounds or duplication of effort. This
needs careful communication in order not to impact morale and
expectations.

### Establish a high-performing team

The most important factor in ensuring the success of the adoption is to
establish a high-performing core team. The core team needs these
attributes:

\* Effective leadership \* Shared vision \* Professional outlook \*
Highly skilled and knowledgeable \* Open and collaborative \*
Enthusiastic \* Good communicators \* High level of trust

For more information about the organization and establishment of a
center of excellence, see [Establishing a systems and software
engineering ecosystem center of
excellence](DeploymentEstablishingACenterOfExcellence).

### Communicate effectively

Frequent, good quality communication to all the practitioners and
stakeholders is essential. It is important to communicate the following
points:

-   Why the change is happening, and what the benefits are
-   An initial roadmap of the change journey
-   How the change will impact individual practitioners
-   How the change will be managed

### Establish a knowledge base

Providing a knowledge base helps practitioners to help themselves, and
to learn from the experiences of others, speeding up the adoption rate,
and reducing the support burden on the adoption teams.

-   Process information
-   Tool feature guides
-   Training materials
-   Hints and tips
-   Frequently asked questions (FAQs)
-   Forums
-   Support and help contacts

### Provide effective technical support

Introducing a major technological change will always encounter problems
and issues. It is important to ensure that a mechanism exists to address
these issues quickly and that practitioners know this information:

\* How to get help when the solution is not working; for example, if the
tool is not correctly configured. In this situation, clear help desk
procedures are important. \* How to get help to understand how to use
the solution effectively in a given situation.

### Manage change effectively

The new solution must continually evolve as it matures and as the needs
of the business change. A robust and effective change management process
is needed to facilitate this change. Consider the following questions:

-   If the new practice, process, or tools are not working as
    effectively as they should, what is the change management process?
-   How do I raise new ideas for improvement?

## Summary

This paper examined a few of the factors that can influence initial
deployment and ongoing adoption of new software tooling and working
practices, and suggested six best practices to ensure the success of
adoption.

##### Related topics: [Implementation planning and deployment roadmap](ImplementationPlanningAndDeploymentRoadmap), [Establishing a systems and software engineering ecosystem center of excellence](DeploymentEstablishingACenterOfExcellence) [related-topics-implementation-planning-and-deployment-roadmap-establishing-a-systems-and-software-engineering-ecosystem-center-of-excellence]

##### External links: \* [IBM Software Services for Rational](http://www.ibm.com/software/rational/services/) [external-links-ibm-software-services-for-rational]

META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="AdoptionCurve.png"
attachment="AdoptionCurve.png" attr="h" comment="" date="1367962971"
path="AdoptionCurve.png" size="9838" user="jduckmanton" version="1"}
META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="AdoptionFactors.png"
attachment="AdoptionFactors.png" attr="h" comment="" date="1367962993"
path="AdoptionFactors.png" size="118621" user="jduckmanton" version="1"}
