META:TOPICINFO{author="syeshin" date="1415650402" format="1.1"
version="1.26"} META:TOPICPARENT{name="WebHome"}

# Deployment wiki vision [deployment-wiki-vision]

DKGRAY Authors: Main.StevenBeard Build basis: None ENDCOLOR

TOC{title="Page contents"}

This topic outlines the vision for the Deployment wiki and the wider
Rational Deployment community that it supports. This wiki was
established to be the single repository for all additional Rational
deployment guidance and best practices for customers, IBM Business
Partners, and Rational staff, beyond the basic product and support
documentation. The scope of the wiki is the full range of Rational
product sets and solutions, but it focuses on guidance and best
practices for the most commonly deployed product sets and solutions.

For the benefit of customers, IBM Business Partners, and Rational staff,
the wiki aims to move from storing approximately 70 of existing
deployment guidance and best practices internally in various IBM
repositories to storing 90+ of this content externally on this Jazz.net
wiki.

A key aim of the wiki is to strengthen the Rational deployment community
for all stakeholders. The wiki needs a strong community of deployment
experts, practitioners and users to develop and sustain its content. The
wiki is moderated and has different levels of write [access
control](DeploymentAccessControl) to help maintain the overall quality
of content, particularly of core guidance. Read access to the wiki is
unrestricted, which allows for search engine indexing, and does not
require you to log in.

## Relationship between the Deployment wiki and other information sources

The [Rational product documentation](InformationCenter) and other
documentation contains the basic product information that customers, IBM
Business Partners, and Rational staff require first. This wiki contains
additional subjective deployment guidance and best practices that
supplement the basic product documentation. In addition, some
time-constrained information such as system requirements for the
Rational solution for Collaborative Lifecycle Management (CLM) are also
in this wiki.

Specific deployment guidance that is currently in the product
documentation will be moved into this wiki over time. Wiki topic pages
that become standard product information will be migrated into the
product documentation. However, the majority of specific guidance on the
wiki will not be migrated into the product documentation.

Jazz.net articles will no longer be created for deployment-related
information in favor of the wiki. Existing deployment related articles
will be migrated to and updated on the wiki over time. Jazz.net articles
that are migrated will be replaced with links to where they exist on the
wiki.

\#DeploymentCommunity

## Rational Deployment community

Beyond providing a repository for deployment guidance and best
practices, the wiki aims to further build and integrate the Rational
Deployment community. This community joins all stakeholders who are
involved in the planning, installation, upgrade, administration, and
support for the deployment of Rational software and systems development
environments.

This wiki supports several deployment-related Rational client-facing
programs as part of the overall Rational Deployment community.

### Enterprise Deployment Design Partner Program (DPP)

This program holds regular community calls between Rational and
nominated customers and IBM Business Partners. The DPPs develop
long-term relationships with a small set of select customers and IBM
Business Partners and engage them very early in the development cycle.
The program spans multiple releases and focuses on partnering with
Rational in the design and development of its strategies, directions,
and products. DPPs have helped improve product features and quality,
verify market suitability before general availability, and increase
client satisfaction.

To nominate a customer or IBM Business Partner (self-nomination is
encouraged), complete the [Rational Client Design Partner Program
External Nomination to
Participate](https://www.ibm.com/software/support/trial/cst/forms/nomination.wss?id=2279)
web form. Select the **Enterprise Deployment** check box to nominate a
customer or IBM Business Partner for this program.

### [IBM Rational Voice of the Client (VoiCE)](https://www.ibm.com/wikis/home?lang=en_US#/wiki/Rational20World20Wide20VoiCE20Events)

VoiCE is a series of 1-day or multiple-day confidential conferences that
are generally held in conjunction with [Rational Innovate
Conferences](http://www.ibm.com/software/rational/innovate/) worldwide.
VoiCE is also held at 6-month intervals before and after Innovate in
some geographies. Organized around product or solution-related tracks,
VoiCE is attended by key clients, usually 10-25 per session. VoiCE is
sponsored principally by Rational Support and VoiCE sessions are owned
by Rational engineering and product delivery. Usually held in a
face-to-face setting, VoiCE discussions focus on these topics:

\* Foundations \* Product and solution roadmaps and directions \* Client
pain points \* Feature and requirement priorities

All VoiCE participants must have a confidentiality agreement in place.
Clients who want to learn more about VoiCE or other Rational Client
Programs should email <voiceibm@us.ibm.com>. Follow Rational VoiCE on
Twitter @RationalVoiCE.

Additional information about the [Rational Client
Programs](https://www14.software.ibm.com/iwm/web/cc/earlyprograms/rational.shtml)
can be found by following the link.

##### Related topics: [Deployment wiki roles and responsibilities](DeploymentRolesAndResponsibilities) [related-topics-deployment-wiki-roles-and-responsibilities]

##### External links: \* [IBM Rational Voice of the Client (VoiCE)](https://www.ibm.com/wikis/home?lang=en_US#/wiki/Rational20World20Wide20VoiCE20Events) \* [Rational Innovate Conference](http://www.ibm.com/software/rational/innovate/) [external-links-ibm-rational-voice-of-the-client-voice-rational-innovate-conference]

-   [Overview of Rational Client
    Programs](https://www14.software.ibm.com/iwm/web/cc/earlyprograms/rational.shtml)
-   [Datasheet for Rational Client
    Programs](https://www-304.ibm.com/connections/wikis/home?lang=en-us#!/wiki/Rational20Early20Client20Programs)

##### Additional contributors: None [additional-contributors-none]
