META:TOPICINFO{author="sbeard" date="1373050375" format="1.1"
version="1.2"} META:TOPICPARENT{name="WebHome"}

### INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION PROVIDES THIS WIKI "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Some states do not allow disclaimer of express or implied warranties in
certain transactions, therefore, this statement may not apply to you.

This information could include technical inaccuracies or typographical
errors. Changes are periodically made to the information herein; these
changes will be incorporated in new editions of the publication. IBM may
make improvements and/or changes in the product(s) and/or the program(s)
described in this publication at any time without notice.

IBM may use or distribute any of the information you supply in any way
it believes appropriate without incurring any obligation to you. Your
use of information from the Jazz.net Deployment Wiki is at your own
risk.

IN NO EVENT WILL IBM BE LIABLE TO ANY PARTY FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT,
SPECIAL, CONSEQUENTIAL OR OTHER DAMAGES OF ANY TYPE FOR ANY USE OF THIS
WIKI OR ITS CONTENT, OR FOR ANY HYPER LINKED WEB SITE AND ITS CONTENT,
INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY LOST PROFITS, BUSINESS INTERRUPTION,
LOSS OF OR DAMAGE TO PROGRAMS OR OTHER DATA ON YOUR INFORMATION HANDLING
SYSTEM OR OTHERWISE, EVEN IF WE ARE EXPRESSLY ADVISED OF OR AWARE OF THE
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES OR LOSSES. THIS EXCLUSION AND WAIVER OF
LIABILITY APPLIES TO ALL CAUSES OF ACTION, WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT,
WARRANTY, TORT, OR ANY OTHER LEGAL THEORIES.

All performance data contained in the Jazz.net Deployment wiki was
obtained in the specified operating environment and under the conditions
described in the document and is presented as an illustration only.
Performance obtained in other operating environments may vary and you
should conduct your own testing.
