META:TOPICINFO{author="sbeard" date="1377690369" format="1.1"
version="1.20"} META:TOPICPARENT{name="DeploymentAccessControl"}

# Nominating Deployment wiki technical leaders and senior editors [nominating-deployment-wiki-technical-leaders-and-senior-editors]

DKGRAY Authors: Main.JosephPesot, Main.RalphEarle, Main.StevenBeard
Build Basis: None ENDCOLOR

TOC{title="Page contents"}

The Deployment wiki community encourages IBM customers and IBM Business
Partners, as well as members of Rational staff, to nominate deployment
experts as potential members of the Deployment wiki technical leaders
and senior editors group (Main.TWikiDeploymentAuthorsGroup). Members of
this group have full write access to all pages of the Deployment wiki,
as described in the [Deployment wiki access
control](DeploymentAccessControl) policy.

## Overview of the nomination process

Nominations to this group will be submitted, reviewed, tracked, and
ultimately approved or rejected by using Rational Team Concert work
items.

Each nomination will be entered as a single work item and include
relevant data about the nominated individual.

A critical aspect of a nomination to this group will be the
identification of an *IBM Rational Sponsor*.

Finally, each nomination must also include a *brief justification* for
the nomination, and include elements such as the individual's deployment
background, types of environments supported or deployed, and so on.

## Submitting a nomination

To submit a nomination:

1.  Create a work item by using the [Technical leader nomination
    template](https://jazz.net/jazz02/web/projects/Deployment20Wiki#action=com.ibm.team.workitem.newWorkItemSet&tq=1367627721000).
2.  In the Description of the work item, add the requested information.
3.  Add the nominee name and sponsor name to the work item summary where
    indicated:
    `Technical Leader Nomination - [nominee name] - sponsor: [sponsor name]`
    **Note:** Do not include any other personal or confidential
    information about the nominee in the work item.
4.  Save the work item.

## Nomination approval process

Nominations to the technical leaders and senior editors group will
require approval from the identified IBM Rational sponsor and the whole
[Community technical leaders and senior editors
committee](DeploymentLeaders). Within two weeks of submitting their
nomination, nominees will be contacted to inform them of the decision.

##### Related topics: [Deployment wiki access control](DeploymentAccessContorl) [Deployment practitioners nomination form](DeploymentPractitionersNominationProcess) [related-topics-deployment-wiki-access-control-deployment-practitioners-nomination-form]

##### External links: [external-links]

-   None

##### Additional contributors: None [additional-contributors-none]

META:TOPICMOVED{by="sbeard" date="1368441405"
from="Deployment.DeploymentTechnicalLeadersAndSeniorEditorsNominationForm"
to="Deployment.DeploymentTechnicalLeadersAndSeniorEditorsNominationProcess"}
