META:TOPICINFO{author="michaelrowe" date="1659376043" format="1.1"
version="1.22"}
META:TOPICPARENT{name="IntegrationsTroubleshootingRTCandBuildforge"}

# How do I enable verbose logging for Jazz Ant tasks, Jazz Build Engine, and Rational Build Forge integration with Rational Team Concert? [how-do-i-enable-verbose-logging-for-jazz-ant-tasks-jazz-build-engine-and-rational-build-forge-integration-with-rational-team-concert]

DKGRAY Authors: IntegrationsTroubleshootingTeam Build basis: Rational
Team Concert 4.0.x, 5.x, 6.X, 7.X ENDCOLOR

TOC{title="Page contents"}

This page provides information to help you enable verbose logging for
your Jazz Build Engine and Ant tasks in order to increase the amount of
debug information reported in the build logs that are generated by
Engineering Workflow Management (EWM - formerly known as Rational Team
Concert).

## Initial assessment

-   In order to debug a certain Jazz Ant task or Jazz Build Engine
    participant that is failing, you have the option to enable the
    verbose output. This option will get more details about the task or
    participant actions.

## Data gathering and subsequent analysis steps

### Jazz Ant tasks tracing

To better understand why a Jazz Ant task fails or does not work as
expected, you can enable verbose logging for the Jazz Ant task.

Example:

The verbose output is captured in the build log files (step logs of
Build Forge) that will be available in the build results overview in
Engineering Workflow Management Eclipse client or web UI.

To add debug output to the build, add echo statements into the Ant build
script to validate build variables.

Example:

### Jazz Build Engine participant tracing

Add **-verbose** argument to the command where you invoke the
participant.

\${Build_Engine_Path}/jbe -userId \${Build_User} -pass
\${Build_Password} -repository \${Repository_Address} -buildResultUUID
\${buildResultUuid} -engineUUID \${engineUUID} -participants
com.ibm.team.build.autoDeliver -noComplete -verbose

This will capture the verbose output of the participant in the
Engineering Workflow Management (EWM) build log files that will be
available in build results overview in EWM Eclipse client or web UI.

### Jazz Build Engine tracing

Add **-verbose** argument to the Jazz Build Engine (jbe) run command.

/jbe -userId \${Build_User} -pass \${Build_Password} -repository
\${Repository_Address} -engineId engine -verbose

This will start including the verbose output in the console that is
running the Jazz Build Engine binary.

### Rational Build Forge integration tracing

To enable the verbose trace of the Build Forge integration with
Engineering Workflow Management and to get details in the logs about
what is happening in the background when you request a build from EWM,
enable verbose logging for the following properties: Prior to versions
7.0.1 SR1 / 7.0.2 SR1: 1. In the log4j.properties file of the Change and
Configuration Management (CCM) or Jazz application, enable verbose
logging for the following properties and restart the server:

log4j.logger.com.ibm.rational.buildforge=DEBUG
log4j.logger.com.ibm.rational.connector.buildforge=ALL

Or to reduce the noise and debug a particular task.

log4j.logger.com.ibm.rational.buildforge.team.internal.service.BuildForgeBuildLoopScheduledTask=DEBUG
log4j.logger.com.ibm.rational.buildforge.team.internal.service.BuildForgeEventPollerScheduledTask=DEBUG

**Instead of restarting the server you can reload the log4j.properties
file by accessing the following link**:

For versions 7.0.1 SR1 / 7.0.2 SR2 and beyond: 1. In the log4j2.xml file
of the Change and Configuration Management (CCM) or Jazz application,
enable verbose logging for the following properties and restart the
server:

Or to reduce the noise and debug a particular task.

**Instead of restarting the server you can reload the log4v2.xml file by
accessing the following link**:

https://server:9443/ccm/admin?internal=true#action=com.ibm.team.repository.admin.reloadLoggingSettings

(This will avoid having to restart the server)

Now you can request the build from the Rational Team Concert build
definition and all the tracing will be captured in the ccm.log or
jazz.log file.

### List all the Build engines defined in the repository

use the following URL to get a list of all Build engines defined in the
repository. Make sure Jazz Admin account is used.

[https://HOST:PORT/ccm/resource/virtual/build/engines?\_prettyPrint=true](https://HOST:PORT/ccm/resource/virtual/build/engines?_prettyPrint=true)

Please note from this output , you can also check the engine state and
which build definition it supports.

### List all the Build definition defined in the repository.

Again, use Jazz admin account and use the URL below:

[https://HOST:PORT/ccm/resource/virtual/build/definitions?\_prettyPrint=true](https://HOST:PORT/ccm/resource/virtual/build/definitions?_prettyPrint=true)

##### Related topics: [related-topics]

-   Still need help troubleshooting your integrations issue? Refer to
    [Integrations troubleshooting](IntegrationsTroubleshooting) for
    additional topics.
-   For more troubleshooting topics, refer to [Jazz and Build Forge
    performance
    troubleshooting](BuildForgeAndRationalTeamConcertPerformanceTroubleshooting).

##### External links: [external-links]

\* None

##### Additional contributors: Main.ZeeshanChoudhry [additional-contributors-main.zeeshanchoudhry]
