META:TOPICINFO{author="dmmckinn" date="1440706570" format="1.1"
version="1.4"} META:TOPICPARENT{name="IntegrationWhereToStart"}

# ALM Middleware Core Solution DKGRAY Cross-cutting theme technical leaders and senior editors: Main.AmySilberbauer, Main.MarianneHollier ENDCOLOR [alm-middleware-core-solution-dkgray-cross-cutting-theme-technical-leaders-and-senior-editors-main.amysilberbauer-main.mariannehollier-endcolor]

TOC{title="Page contents"}

In this section, we expand the scope of Integrations from **ALM Core**
to include all of the **Systems - Middleware** tooling that applies in
the context of the [Golden Integration
Scenarios](IntegrationHighPriorityScenarios).

## **Expanded** Integration Focus for Systems - Middleware

On the [Integrations: Where to start?](IntegrationWhereToStart) page, we
describe the scope of **ALM Core** as the key focus area for integration
topics. In this section, we expand on **ALM Core** to define the
additional set of products that play a role in the integration
scenarios.

Integration between the **ALM Core** solution set of products and the
Core Middleware tooling is through the Eclipse client. All products can
shell-share, providing a unified development experience.

Integrations are described in more detail in the IBM Knowledge Center:

-   [Rational solution for Collaborative Lifecycle Management solution
    \>
    Integrating](http://www-01.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSYMRC_6.0.0/com.ibm.help.common.jazz.calm.doc/topics/c_node_integrating.html)
-   [Rational solution for Systems and Software Engineering \>
    Integrating](http://www-01.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/SSQQC5_6.0.0/com.ibm.rational.sse.doc/topics/c_node_integrating.html)

The following diagrams show role-based activities that typical
development teams would perform, and highlight the integration between
the core ALM solution and the core Middleware tools.

##### Scenario Diagrams: [scenario-diagrams]

##### [DevOps for WebSphere Application Server](ATTACHURLPATH/ScenarioDesigns_DevOpsforWASv2.png) [devops-for-websphere-application-server]

##### [DevOps for IBM Integration Bus](ATTACHURLPATH/ScenarioDesigns_DevOpsforIIBv2.png) [devops-for-ibm-integration-bus]

##### [DevOps for MQ](ATTACHURLPATH/ScenarioDesigns_DevOpsforMQ_3.png) [devops-for-mq]

##### Related topics: [Deployment web home](DeploymentWebHome), [Deployment web home](DeploymentWebHome) [related-topics-deployment-web-home-deployment-web-home]

##### External links: [external-links]

-   [IBM](https://www.ibm.com)

META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="ScenarioDesigns_DevOpsforWASv2.png"
attachment="ScenarioDesigns_DevOpsforWASv2.png" attr="" comment="DevOps
for WebSphere Application Server - Scenario" date="1440177151"
path="ScenarioDesigns_DevOpsforWASv2.png" size="293520" user="asilber"
version="1"}
META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="ScenarioDesigns_ALMCoreMiddleware.png"
attachment="ScenarioDesigns_ALMCoreMiddleware.png" attr="" comment="ALM
Core Middleware Integrated Solution" date="1440179575"
path="ScenarioDesigns_ALMCoreMiddleware.png" size="95675" user="asilber"
version="1"}
META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="ScenarioDesigns_DevOpsforIIBv2.png"
attachment="ScenarioDesigns_DevOpsforIIBv2.png" attr="" comment="DevOps
for IBM Integration Bus - Scenario" date="1440181672"
path="ScenarioDesigns_DevOpsforIIBv2.png" size="269884"
user="mariannehollier" version="1"}
META:FILEATTACHMENT{name="ScenarioDesigns_DevOpsforMQ_3.png"
attachment="ScenarioDesigns_DevOpsforMQ_3.png" attr="" comment="DevOps
for MQ" date="1440182167" path="ScenarioDesigns_DevOpsforMQ_3.png"
size="284330" user="mariannehollier" version="1"}
