META:TOPICINFO{author="syeshin" date="1446146535" format="1.1"
version="1.95"} META:TOPICPARENT{name="DeploymentTroubleshooting"}

# Integrations troubleshooting [integrations-troubleshooting]

DKGRAY Authors: IntegrationsTroubleshootingTeam Build basis: The
Rational solution for Collaborative Lifecycle Management (CLM) 4.x, 5.x
ENDCOLOR

This page is the starting point to find information and techniques that
you can use to diagnose integrations issues that occur in the Rational
solution for Collaborative Lifecycle Management (CLM) products: Rational
DOORS Next Generation, Rational Quality Manager, Rational Team Concert
and Rational Requirements Composer.

## How to use this integrations troubleshooting guide

The sections below show an alphabetic listing of products that the CLM
products integrate with. Topics that apply to multiple Jazz-based
products are grouped separately.

Troubleshooting situations are listed on the individual product pages
and are divided into two groups: situations that administrators are
likely to encounter, and situations that CLM users are likely to
encounter.

Before you begin troubleshooting issues with these product integrations
you should first verify that the product versions you are using are
compatible and supported. Refer to [How to verify that two products are
compatible](https://jazz.net/wiki/bin/view/Deployment/HowToVerifyThatTwoProductsAreCompatible)
for details.

\#JazzProductIntegrations

## Jazz product integrations

This section provides information to troubleshoot integration issues
that impact multiple Jazz-based products.

-   [Rational ClearQuest](IntegrationsTroubleshootingJazzandClearQuest)

<!-- -->

-   [Rational DOORS](IntegrationsTroubleshootingJazzandDOORS)

<!-- -->

-   [Rational
    Insight](IntegrationsTroubleshootingJazzandRationalInsight)

<!-- -->

-   [Rational Publishing
    Engine](IntegrationsTroubleshootingJazzandRationalPublishingEngine)

<!-- -->

-   [Rational Software Architect Design
    Manager](IntegrationsTroubleshootingJazzandSoftwareArchitectExtforDesignMgt)

<!-- -->

-   [Troubleshooting issues between integrated
    applications](https://jazz.net/wiki/bin/view/Deployment/TroubleshootingIssuesBetweenIntegratedApplications)

\#LifecycleIntegrationAdapters

## Lifecycle Integration Adapters

-   Standard Edition \* [HP
    ALM](IntegrationsTroubleshootingRationalAdapterForHPALM)
    -   [JIRA](IntegrationsTroubleshootingRationalAdapterForJIRA)

\* [Windchill
](TroubleshootingRationalLifecycleIntegrationAdapterForWindchill)

\#RationalTeamConcertIntegrations

## Rational Team Concert integrations

-   [Rational AppScan](IntegrationsTroubleshootingRTCandRationalAppScan)

<!-- -->

-   [Rational Asset
    Manager](IntegrationsTroubleshootingRTCandRationalAssetManager)

<!-- -->

-   [Rational Build Forge and Jazz Build
    Engine](IntegrationsTroubleshootingRTCandBuildforge)

<!-- -->

-   [Rational ClearCase](IntegrationsTroubleshootingRTCandClearCase)

\* [Jenkins and Hudson](JenkinsAndHudson)

-   [RTC Visual Studio](IntegrationsTroubleshootingDebugRTCVSClient)

<!-- -->

-   [Smart Card](IntegrationsTroubleshootingSmartCard)

<!-- -->

-   [Integrated Development Environments (Rational Application
    Developer,
    etc.)](IntegrationsTroubleshootingRTCandIntegratedDevelopmentEnvironments)

<!-- -->

-   [Rational Software Architect Design
    Manager](IntegrationsTroubleshootingRTCandRationalSoftwareArchitectExtforDesignMgt)

<!-- -->

-   [IBM UrbanCode
    Deploy](TroubleshootingRationalTeamConcertIntegrationWithIBMUrbanCodeDeploy)

\#RationalQualityManagerIntegrations

## Rational Quality Manager integrations

-   [Adapters](IntegrationsTroubleshootingRQMandAdapters)

\#RequirementsManagementIntegrations

## Requirements Management integrations

-   [Rational Requirements
    Composer](IntegrationTroubleshootingRationalRequirementsComposer)

\#DesignManagerIntegrations

## Design Manager integrations

\* [Rational Software Architect Design
Manager](IntegrationsTroubleshootingJazzandSoftwareArchitectExtforDesignMgt)

## Where do I go from here? If you cannot resolve your issue by using the available online resources, open a service request with IBM Rational Support. Refer to [Additional troubleshooting resources](DataCollectionandSupportResources) for further details.

### Can't find what you're looking for?

This page contains topics that are in progress and is also a place for
readers to suggest future topics: [Integrations troubleshooting future
topics](IntegrationsTroubleshootingFutureTopics)

##### Related topics: [Troubleshooting web home](DeploymentTroubleshooting), [Deployment web home](DeploymentWebHome) [related-topics-troubleshooting-web-home-deployment-web-home]

##### External links: [external-links]

-   Rational Team Concert - Rational Software Architect Design Manager
    integration: Importing gives error "No file system is defined for
    scheme: sourcecontrol":
    <http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21634062>
-   ETL hangs when delivering data to an Oracle data warehouse:
    <http://www.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=swg21638341>

##### Contributors: Main.AntoinetteIacobo, Main.AraMasrof, Main.DeniseMcKinnon, Main.FrancoisPanaget, Main.MaeveOReilly, Main.ZeeshanChoudhry [contributors-main.antoinetteiacobo-main.aramasrof-main.denisemckinnon-main.francoispanaget-main.maeveoreilly-main.zeeshanchoudhry]
