META:TOPICINFO{author="sbeard" date="1380881852" format="1.1"
version="1.7"} META:TOPICPARENT{name="WebHome"}

# Using the Jazz.net forums [using-the-jazz.net-forums]

DKGRAY Authors: Main.JosephPesot Build basis: None ENDCOLOR

TOC{title="Page contents"}

You are encouraged to directly participate in the Deployment wiki by
adding new content or asking questions. You are also encouraged to take
advantage of the Jazz.net forums.

## Relationship of the Jazz.net forums to the Deployment wiki

Members of Jazz.net use the Jazz forums to ask a variety of questions
about Rational products that are based on Jazz technology. Community
members, who are both from IBM and outside IBM, provide potential
answers to the questions. Members often ask questions about issues
related to deployment.

A key feature of the Jazz forums is the ability to include up to 8 tag
words (tags) for a given question. The use of tags allows knowledgable
experts to more easily find questions that fall within their areas of
expertise. Many deployment experts subscribe to specific
deployment-related tags so that they are notified through email when
someone asks a question and uses those specific tags.

If you use the Jazz forums and post a deployment question, include one
or more of the deployment-related tags.

### Deployment-related forum tags

The following list includes some of the deployment-related tags that the
Deployment wiki community monitors and a list of recent forum questions
that use each tag:

-   Installation: See the [most recent installation
    questions](https://jazz.net/forum/tags/installation/) on the forum.
-   Upgrade: See the [most recent upgrade
    questions](https://jazz.net/forum/tags/upgrade/) on the forum.
-   Migration: See the [most recent migration
    questions](https://jazz.net/forum/tags/migration/) on the forum.
-   Performance: See the [most recent performance
    questions](https://jazz.net/forum/tags/performance/) on the forum.
-   Integration: See the [most recent integration
    questions](https://jazz.net/forum/tags/integration/) on the forum.
-   Troubleshooting: See the [most recent troubleshooting
    questions](https://jazz.net/forum/tags/troubleshooting/) on the
    forum.

##### Related topics: None [related-topics-none]

##### External links: None [external-links-none]

##### Additional contributors: None [additional-contributors-none]
